# 2023 in Review

## Photography

Every December, I challenge myself to concentrate the harvest of photos I take during the calendar year—each year's more bountiful than the last's—into a dense 13-photo album.

I've just selected and published the photos from 2023. See them at photos.html.

=> /photos.html photos.html

My photography gear this year has been the Olympus OM-D E-M5 Mark III with the 14–150mm ƒ4.0 as my everyday carry / daytime lens, and the 17mm, 25mm, and 45mm ƒ1.8 lenses for low-light.

=> https://amzn.to/47nR3a9 Olympus OM-D E-M5 Mark III
=> https://amzn.to/48im3IS 14–150mm ƒ4.0
=> https://amzn.to/3vaUaUT 17mm
=> https://amzn.to/3tv8Eyj 25mm
=> https://amzn.to/3NATgXT 45mm

## Travel

In 2023, Summer and I were fortunate enough to go to France, Japan, and China.

I've never been a traveler. I bond with this style:

> I spend most of the day psyching myself up to do one thing—visit a museum, perhaps—and the rest of the day recovering from the only event on my itinerary.

> *—John Green, The Anthropocene Reviewed*

=> https://amzn.to/3Tzrdff The Anthropocene Reviewed

So it was not entirely surprising to discover this year that Summer and I enjoy spending 4–7 days in one city and dwelling, with at least half of those days planless, then going home.

## Interior Design

I continue my interior design hobby in the background, but improvement comes slowly. I discovered Sweet Home 3D this year, which has helped me visualize options quickly. I've learned to not be picky about furniture visualizations.

=> https://www.sweethome3d.com Sweet Home 3D

We expect to move in 2024, so I have been playing around with ideas. I hope to share more later in the year.
