# The Curse Of Being Anxious and Bag-Obsessed

1. Coming from "one big cavity and one small cavity" Jansport-style bags, you decide you want more organization in your bag. Cables, cameras, food, earbuds, tablet, laptop, you're sick of them being tangled and complex to summon.
2. You get a bag with a lot of pockets. Some in, some out. Everything has a little home. It's satisfying.
3. This is the life. It's so nice to carry things, so you start expanding your everyday carry set from "things I need" to "things I might need".
4. Your bag still has plenty of capacity.
5. The "things I might need" category starts to broaden, because there's no reason for it not to. What was charger and dongles becomes backup battery, sunscreen, and hand sanitizer.
6. You spend a few years here. People are amazed and surprised when, once in a blue moon, you have just what they need. This is the life. You put an ounce of intention into preparing on their behalves. It's nice to feel useful.
7. You start bringing your bag most places even if you can see no reason to.
8. When you go on trips, your bag is suddenly crammed. You can't possibly see how you could fit travel needs *and* everyday carry in one bag.
9. You buy a travel bag. It's nice.
10. Okay, the travel bag is a bit much to carry around town "on location". You look like a tourist.
11. You think about getting a day bag. But what about your everyday bag? Well, it'd be too much to bring both it and a travel bag. You need something that can fit *inside* the travel bag.
12. You buy a day bag. It's small enough to fit in your travel bag, or collapses to be.
13. Everything is perfect forever.
14. But your day bag is not very functional. Carrying it around town on trips is not as fun as carrying your everyday bag around your hometown. It doesn't fit as much, or it doesn't give things their little homes like you enjoyed in step 2.
15. ??? (this is a developing story)
