*This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog I FEEL ASLEEP, which was shared with Neverhitboxes.*

=> https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/ I FEEL ASLEEP

---

# Shouldering time

This couldn’t have been more horribly timed.

As some of you may know, I’m in the middle of a slew of awesome games right now. There are just too many I need to play — it’s like when two of your favorite shows are on at the same time. And, uh, you are twenty years in the past. Where, y’know, you can’t download/stream/browse on demand for/digitally record them.

But watch your back — the gaming gods get mad at you when you play with fire — I’m proof of that.

=> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_of_Warcraft play with fire

Today, my DS broke. Broke is a rather vague word, so I’ll explain.

Only a couple days ago, I noticed my L button wasn’t functioning as smoothly as it’s supposed to — one of the games I’ve been playing lately is Megaman ZX (which I haven’t covered in my rounds yet), and one of the fastest ways to travel is by using Model Hx (the biometal of the wind) to dash-jump, air dash, and repeat. Both of those moves require the L button (dash), which is how I first noticed it (of course, that constant use probably didn’t help, but hey, I didn’t do anything wrong).

Instead of being able to press it from the edge, I had to hug my finger around the top of the DS and push it down, and pretty hard.

Yesterday, it stopped functioning altogether. I was playing Geometry Wars and kept wondering, *Why are all these new levels not giving me any bombs?* And of course, I still don’t know which symbol means *bombs* and which means lives.

=> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometry_Wars:_Galaxies#Nintendo_DS_and_Wii_versions Geometry Wars

So yeah, point made, my L button is broken. And I’m sad. Because there are five DS games in queue for me right now (yup, those are all upcoming game loads), and I have to send off my DS to get repaired.

At least it’s in the warranty. And Nintendo’s usually really cool about this kind of stuff, so I don’t expect any problems to come up.

=> http://fiendishgleeclub.vox.com/library/post/customer-service-gone-shockingly-right.html really cool

Maybe the gaming gods are looking out for me after all.
