*This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog I FEEL ASLEEP, which was shared with Neverhitboxes.*

=> https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/ I FEEL ASLEEP

---

# Things I've learned today

So I played through *Halo 3* today with a friend, start to finish, and I have to say, I kinda don’t like it at all. I loved *Halo*; *Halo 2* was great; but _Halo 3_…meh.

I’m a big storyline person. I love getting involved in the events of a game. A big reason I bought the game (I don’t even have a 360 and had to get a friend to lend his to me under the sole condition that I *give him the game* when I’m done) was to get some closure for the *Halo* storyline, and frankly, *there is none*. There are *so many* questions left unanswered at the end of the game; too many even if there were to be a *Halo 4*. I don’t want to get too into specifics for those who haven’t yet played through it and still plan to, but were it not for a few small things, the game would have almost no attracting storyline elements *whatsoever*.

I admit that some parts of the game were fun, namely the last level, which was reminiscent of the first game’s last level *The Maw*, but overall the game failed to impress. The graphics were not at all bad, but weren’t something to drool over (then again, we were playing split-screen on a 19-inch TV). I’d much prefer not necessarily the graphics, but maybe the graphical feel of Wii’s Metroid Prime 3, my last favorite console game.

On a separate but related note, playing console FPS’s constantly makes me realize how much I love PC games. It seems trivial, but when you’re in an intense situation, and you need to turn 180 degrees around, and with a console you can only push the control stick so far in one direction and actually have to *wait* for your character to turn all the way around, it gets pretty annoying and sets some serious pace limits. On a PC, you’re in full control — your character’s movements actually *correspond* to your mouse; there’s no center that you need to reset to when you’re done turning.

If this is hard to understand, just think about what I said — imagine you’re playing *Halo* right now (or just go play it), and you want to spin around to face the other way. You hold the control stick down one direction until you’re there, right? It might take a second or less (depending on your sensitivity). Now imagine the same situation on a PC. You just go *VRRP!* and you’re there (yes, that’s my sound effect for a mouse).

So **anyways**, some PC games I’m excited for now are *Portal* and *Half-Life 2: Episode 2*. I’ve already been playing the *Team Fortress 2* beta and it’s pretty freaking sweet (they’ve even implemented rankings, just like BF2/2142!).

And this time going completely off-topic: did you know *fell* is a word!? I don’t mean the past tense of *fall*; I mean you can actually go *fell* something (i.e. I felled that tree yesterday!). Woo, good times.

=> https://ninjawords.com/fell felled

Ugh, I could totally follow that up with an ATLA quote…

=> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_The_Last_Airbender ATLA
