*This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog I FEEL ASLEEP, which was shared with Neverhitboxes.*

=> https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/ I FEEL ASLEEP

---

# Fun with hardware (OR: The physical world and you)

I was right. It was something stupid.

=> juven2.html was

I had burned Ubuntu onto a DVD and was trying to read it with a CD drive. BLAHG!

So I reburned it and it installed fine. I actually wasn’t expecting that Ubuntu Server would be as command-line-dependent as it is (no desktop environment whatsoever), but it makes sense. I’ve just got to look up anything I want to do at another computer, write it down, then run upstairs and type it in, since my own computer isn’t at this house and I have to use the family’s.

So far I’ve gotten it hooked up to the ‘net and running Apache, MySQL, PHP and an FTP server, although I’ve only had the chance to test the FTP server so far. But before I get too bogged down on getting it all ready-to-go on the software half, I actually have to *get everything in that case.*

What I did (or am attempting to do) with the case is kinda stupid, actually. I just took the old case, ripped out the HDD and CDD bays with just a screwdriver and my now-cut-in-several-places hands, repositioned the former, left out the latter, and fastened (if you can call it that) the power supply on top of the bay using a seriously-bent piece of metal and a screw.

In retrospect, all this did was make the final assembly one power-supply-worth-of-height shorter and give me a computer that was held together by nothing more than twisted metal and a few of the original screws. Not to mention, now the power supply is on the *other side of the case* compared to the graphics card and motherboard — so I’ll end up plugging in the power cord into the *front* of the computer.

Talk about deranged.

Oh, and just an update on one of my previous posts: we never actually lost a cat like I thought; she was just hiding somewhere. I sure as hell don’t know *where*, because I pretty much used all my wallhacks to look for her, but whatever; she’s here and safe.

=> realtors.html previous posts

I’ll finish off the post with this: almost every day I have a song stuck in my head (usually a good one). Today it’s Time Warp from the movie The Rocky Horror Picture Show (which was made after a musical containing the same song), and I can’t figure out where I’ve heard the mini-chorus part of it before, but I have to say, it’s a really good song, despite its unusual containment in this movie. I just want to get up and do the dance. It’s kinda weird. But good, too.

=> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Rocky_Horror_Picture_Show The Rocky Horror Picture Show

But weird.
