# Elden Ring’s Imperfect Problem

I had not played a lot of soulslikes before *Elden Ring*. But when my fingers slipped and I dumped 350 hours into it, I figured I should pay my respects to its forebears. Now, I've roughly doubled that playtime among previous From Software games.

Having done this in a short timespan, I've seen patterns emerge.

## On Constraints

Gaming is constraints. A game designer's goal is not to funnel the player from start to finish efficiently, like a SaaS product. That is the *player's* goal. The designer sets constraints. The player solves for the goal given the constraints.

The player will solve for the goal optimally, even if it's not fun for them. They will farm one monster for hours, loot treasure through walls, and spend skill points on the boring skills, all in the name of efficiency.

### Imperfect Information

Before the aughts, something else people would do in the name of efficiency was talk to their friends about games at work or school. They would share ideas and strategies when stuck. This was a way to solve for optimality outside the bounds of the game.

And it was fun. It brought a social component to single player games. I'll never forget getting stuck in The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time for over a week after two friends independently told me I had to shoot Lord Jabu-Jabu's eye to get him to open his mouth (not at all correct); spiraling me into the most desperate and creative slingshot angles ever conceived and hours upon hours of farming deku nuts for ammo.

This is an imperfect information constraint. I did not know how to open Jabu-Jabu's mouth. When I tried to learn from others, the latency was high, the bandwidth was low, and the reliability was bad. *This was a fun constraint.* Going back to school every day ready to explain everything I tried and the suspicions I gained ("the game must be bugged!") was an exciting social experience.

It would not have come about today, where that one moment would instead tap into every conversation ever had about the game anywhere on the planet in about three seconds.

In this world, no one ever gets stuck trying to open Jabu-Jabu's mouth. We've optimized away the imperfect information constraint, and the unique social experience went with it.

### Messing with the Denominator

What can we fix about this? In what modern day situation would I *have* to socialize with friends to get this information again, knowing the internet is at my fingertips? Take a minute before continuing, see if you can workshop at a solution.

---

Here's how From Software approaches it. The way to prevent a player from looking something up is a three-pronged approach:

1. Make it optional.
2. Don’t draw attention to it.
3. Make required routes feel optional.

The way to stop a player from looking something up is to stop them from knowing, noticing, or remembering that there is anything *to* look up. If Jabu-Jabu was an optional dungeon and it wasn’t apparent you could enter him, I wouldn’t have a clue I was even missing anything—until a friend exclaims how excited they were to discover it serendipitously.

This is how From Software builds its games:

#### Downplay

Almost everything is optional. This removes the opportunity for the player to know they’re stuck—*maybe it's just a dead end?* Large gameplay areas are hidden behind hard-to-find paths, but you can’t look up how to find it if you don't know it exists.

#### Distract

Every fork in the road leads to two more. Enter a new room only to be greeted with two exits and a ladder. The open world itself is the grand example; even if your goal is required and you know it’s there, you may get swept up in a series of tangential routes and simply forget about it.

#### Disguise

Experienced players-of-game know there are three types of routes you can go down:

1. Required
2. Optional or bonus
3. Not intended

**Required** routes are the big roads, the bridges, the big landmarks in the skybox: The Citadel in Half-Life 2, the street lamps in Alan Wake, and *to the right* in 2D Mario games. These routes go to the next level, next boss, or next story moment.

**Optional** routes contain bonuses for players who take the time to explore: down a pipe, in a side room, or backtracking at a reverse-fork in the road. These routes have bonus items, bonus story content, or collectible.

**Unintended** routes are what folks like speedunners try to find. They are ways to use the game mechanics or geometry to get somewhere you're not supposed to be. Think jumping on an NPC's head to get onto a roof, or landing on small collidable surfaces like the tip of a tree, or attaching a car to a windmill to extend its jump distance.

=> https://www.twitch.tv/videos/28711958 attaching a car to a windmill to extend its jump distance

Something From Software does better than anyone is **make routes feel unintended**. The way the cities are laid out, the way all the architecture feels like it was made for giants, and the notes players can leave behind all combine to **make you feel like you're getting away with something**, which means all the more in such a difficult game.

#### Conclusion

These three things together have created a magical experience where you stumble upon something major,
