# Goodbye to Splits.io

## EDIT

On October 9, 2024, we announced our shutdown along with this post.

On October 14, 2024, we reached an agreement with Games Done Quick in which Splits.io would link to GDQ and show a banner during GDQ events, in exchange for ongoing financial support from GDQ.

On January 22, 2025, Games Done Quick let us know they would no longer be providing financial support.

The post below has been updated with a new shutdown date of **March 31, 2025**.

This has been emotionally hard on us, and we are not looking to be saved again. Thank you for your love and support. ❤️

## Original Post

'Hoy.

I'm sad to share that **Splits.io will shut down March 31, 2025**.

You can export runs as normal until March 31. After that date, `splits.io` will be replaced with an export-only web page where you can fetch runs by permalink or in bulk by username. You can test that page here, although before March 31 it will only have data through 2023.

=> https://retriever.splits.io here

I plan to keep it in that state for one year, but will do my best to keep it indefinitely beyond that.

I started Splits.io as a college project in 2013 and am super proud of where we have arrived. It's tough to have to shut it down. It always lost money as a side project, so when I made it a full-time job in 2019 and got Tuna and Bated on board, our first goal was to make it financially self-sustaining.

Bated trimmed a bunch of fat from our infrastructure while somehow also making us more stable (anyone who was a user in 2018 remembers that we crashed ~daily).

Tuna handled the business side and grew us by understanding users and working behind the scenes on partnerships.

We're proud we got it to the point that it actually did pay for itself, before we had to return to normal jobs in 2020. Those efforts are what have taken us here smoothly. Unfortunately the well has dried up and we're not in the position to drop everything a second time, nor to foot the bills.

Splits.io remains open source, as it has been since day 1. To anyone wishing to stand up a clone from its source: you have my support and I'm happy to answer questions that come up, though we will not be transferring non-public user data without consent.

Thank you for using and appreciating Splits.io. Every day I woke up to comments from you was a motivational day. Every period of low motivation was eventually ended with a random "what a neat tool!" comment somewhere that granted weeks of renewed energy.

If there's one thing you take from this read, please let it be to give more builders and creators positive comments. Encouragement is positive-sum.

Special thanks to those who contributed code or otherwise helped speedrunning tech become more open source.

Signed,

* Ben "Glacials" Carlsson (twos.dev)
* BatedUrGonnaDie (leagueofnewbs.com)
* Franklyn "Tuna" Rodriguez

=> https://twos.dev twos.dev
=> https://leagueofnewbs.com/ leagueofnewbs.com

(>-.-)>

## PS

I plan to write more about the Splits.io journey and the decisions we made on it. You can follow this website with your RSS reader, subscribe to my low-volume newsletter, or follow me on Bluesky or Mastodon to hear from me when I do.

=> /newsletter.html newsletter
=> https://bsky.app/profile/twos.dev Bluesky
=> https://hachyderm.io/@glacials Mastodon
