*This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog I FEEL ASLEEP, which was shared with Neverhitboxes.*

=> https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/ I FEEL ASLEEP

---

# Thinking about thinking

You ever have those periods of time during your day, when you don’t have quite enough time to start doing something (like playing a game) but you have too much time to just wait out?

I’m totally having one of those periods of time right now.

So I can finally follow the trend and say I have dug one up from the archives. This one balances itself out — it’s a little deep (psychologically), but short:

> The human mind always thinks ahead.

> It’s why excitement is a greater emotion than happiness; why fear is a greater
> emotion than disappointment. It’s why we love Fridays but hate Sundays.

> If our minds never thought ahead, we’d never do anything that would benefit us
> in the future.

> In example, we would never make shelter unless it rained. We fear it will
> rain, so we make shelter.

In retrospect, it seems like one of those “uh, duh!” things, but maybe it’s just one of those things you *know* but never really *realize*. Maybe read over the second sentence more carefully if you’re not sure what I’m talking about.

I’ve still been meaning to write some more Game Loads posts, but having lots of games to play makes it easy to skip out on writing about having lots of games to play.

Meh, I’ll get around to it.

PRE-PUBLISH EDIT: Apparently, the first (or maybe dominant) tag called “fear” ever used on WordPress was actually “F.E.A.R” (the game), so when I try to tag this post with the emotion, it kindly tags it with the game instead.

Um, thanks WordPress?
