---
date: 2022-11-01
filename: 90.html
type: draft
---

# 90 > 100

More people should do things at 90% effort. If you believe you can only choose 0% or 100%, you’ll often choose 0% because you cannot afford 100%.

I became very engaged in helping with the climate emergency in the last couple of years. One really big line item on the list of emitters is meat. One serving (100 g) of beef emits the equivalent of [15 kg](https://www.co2everything.com/co2e-of/beef) of CO₂ into the atmosphere, the same as driving 78 km (48 mi). One 100 g serving of tofu emits 0.08 kg of CO₂ equivalent.[^CO₂ equivalent ("CO₂e") is how we describe climate change impact in a way agnostic to the method. For example cows emit methane, which impacts the climate in a far greater way than CO₂.] In other words, a week of eating beef emits more than three years of eating tofu.[^3x meals daily of 100g protein each]

But there are some things about being vegetarian I just can't do. Summer is deeply carnivorous and I don't want to put her through needing to carve all her options around me (though we did try).

I don't want to be that person in the friend group people have to plan for, or the person who shows up hungry to a barbecue only to make the host feel guilty for not having options.

And there are some formats of meat that I have cravings for once in a blue moon, like a burger or a ball park hot dog.

So I can't be 100% vegetarian. But that's no reason to stay at 0%. I can easily cut meat from the 90% of meals that don't cause any of these issues.

So I became [flexitarian](https://en.wikipedia.org/Flexitarianism), which I describe as "vegetarian except when it would inconvenience people". If 90% of the world could become 90% vegetarian the benefit would be nearly that of 100%/100%, but it's probably 1,000x easier to achieve.

I think we need to take this strategy more often in life. It's similar to the [80/20 rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/80-20_rule), but 80/20 is about optimizing bang-for-the-buck when building things. 90 > 100 is about recognizing that `impact per success` is a worse thing to optimize for than `success rate * impact per success`.