---
date: 2007-09-30
filename: 2142.html
type: post
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# Battlefield 2142

Not to say that I endorse war, or believe it to be fun. But I’ve been playing
Battlefield 2142 lately and it’s pretty freaking sweet. I don’t care what the
ratings said when it came out; I have lots of fun playing it, just like I did
with BF1942 and 2.

I think the thing that’s so hooking (I say hooking and not addicting because
whenever a game is “addicting”, people freak out and send you to rehabilitation)
about games like 2142 is the ranking system. Needn’t I say, it’s the same deal
with MMORPG’s — it’s the feel of being rewarded. It’s what helps you get through
the not-so-fun but still not-so-horrible parts of the game like grinding — the
thought that it’s all worth it because next level you get so-and-so new spell,
or next promotion you get to choose a new weapon.

I admit that it’s a shortcut to hooking people in (a game that’s good at heart
should be fun all the time no matter what), but I don’t disrespect any companies
for taking it, because hey — it’s a tough crowd, and if you can make a game that
people will play, that’s what you do. Plus, it’s not so different than real life
— work hard and you will be rewarded. Not that I’m saying games should be like
life, because that’s the opposite of why we play them — but it’s just not as
crazy a concept as we might think.

Speaking of, to reward you for reading this far into the post (or maybe for just
scrolling past this cah-RAHZY blob of text you saw), here’s an
[xkcd](http://xkcd.com/) comic. I love these comics’ relations to math and
intellect without losing ties to pure humor (assuming you can get the comic).

![](/img/2142-xkcd.jpg)
