---
date: 2007-12-10
filename: emotion.html
type: post
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# Mad at emotion

Pretty much anyone who has watched any family sitcom or movie knows that a lot
of the comedy that comes out of things like that is through certain main
characters getting frustrated, angry or fed-up with someone or something.

Maybe that’s a little vague. Let me give an example.

Right now [_Are We There
Yet?_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Are_We_There_Yet%3F) is on TV, and I’ve been
passively watching it. One of the scenes involves the two kids Nick (the main
character, played by [Ice Cube](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ice_Cube)) is
taking care of pretty much stealing his car. They trick him into getting out of
the car, then they lock the doors and speed around the parking lot.

Ha-ha, comedic scene. That’s what I want to talk about.

As a side-note, I have nothing against this movie; it just happens to be the
most handy example.

I can only assume, and I guess I can understand, that most people find those
kinds of things funny. But for some reason, I just don’t. Instead of laughing or
just saying “Those silly kids”, I kinda hate them at the moment. As much as if
they were doing that kind of stuff to me.

I don’t know why; I just hate them. It’s like I get too attached to the
characters or something. I understand their feelings too much.

And I’ve got to say, it really bugs me. I can no longer watch _Everybody Loves
Raymond_ comfortably — I admit, it was getting old anyway, but it’s just so
annoying now. Every time Marie makes a passing insult at Debra, or every time
Debra does something crazy to Ray — like throw a spoonful of brownie mix in his
face for making a stupid remark — I just get so angry.

It’s like _I’m_ the victim, like _I_ just got a spoonful of liquid chocolate in
my face just for saying something stupid by accident. I mean, imagine if that
was you. Imagine if you accidentally said something stupid or insulting (we all
have) to a spouse (or friend), and they just gave you this death stare and threw
a spoonful of chocolate in your face.

I don’t know about you, but I’d be hella pissed. I mean, that would be totally
unnecessary. I’d get so mad, I don’t even know what I’d do to cool off.

_So why is this funny on TV?_ I can understand that things on TV can be funnier
than similar things in real life (believe me; I’m a hardcore _Seinfeld_ fan),
but I don’t know about this whole anger thing. As far as I know I haven’t met
anyone else who has this problem (not that I ask upon meeting someone or
anything).

It’s a real burden on a person, relating to a fictional character’s emotions. I
go through so many internal mood changes so quickly it’s ridiculous.

What’s weird is that I never show them, though. In fact, sometimes it’s the
opposite: I’ve often been accused of looking depressed or angry when I’m just in
deep thought.

And I like being in deep thought. Because all the emotions in deep thought are
my own.

That, and Deep Thought calculated [The
Answer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Answer_to_Life%2C_the_Universe%2C_and_Everything).
