---
date: 2007-09-30
filename: halo3.html
type: page
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# Things I've learned today

So I played through _Halo 3_ today with a friend, start to finish, and I have to
say, I kinda don’t like it at all. I loved _Halo_; _Halo 2_ was great; but _Halo
3_…meh.

I’m a big storyline person. I love getting involved in the events of a game. A
big reason I bought the game (I don’t even have a 360 and had to get a friend to
lend his to me under the sole condition that I _give him the game_ when I’m
done) was to get some closure for the _Halo_ storyline, and frankly, _there is
none_. There are _so many_ questions left unanswered at the end of the game; too
many even if there were to be a _Halo 4_. I don’t want to get too into specifics
for those who haven’t yet played through it and still plan to, but were it not
for a few small things, the game would have almost no attracting storyline
elements _whatsoever_.

I admit that some parts of the game were fun, namely the last level, which was
reminiscent of the first game’s last level _The Maw_, but overall the game failed
to impress. The graphics were not at all bad, but weren’t something to drool
over (then again, we were playing split-screen on a 19-inch TV). I’d much prefer
not necessarily the graphics, but maybe the graphical feel of Wii’s Metroid
Prime 3, my last favorite console game.

On a separate but related note, playing console FPS’s constantly makes me
realize how much I love PC games. It seems trivial, but when you’re in an
intense situation, and you need to turn 180 degrees around, and with a console
you can only push the control stick so far in one direction and actually have to
_wait_ for your character to turn all the way around, it gets pretty annoying
and sets some serious pace limits. On a PC, you’re in full control — your
character’s movements actually _correspond_ to your mouse; there’s no center
that you need to reset to when you’re done turning.

If this is hard to understand, just think about what I said — imagine you’re
playing _Halo_ right now (or just go play it), and you want to spin around to
face the other way. You hold the control stick down one direction until you’re
there, right? It might take a second or less (depending on your sensitivity).
Now imagine the same situation on a PC. You just go _VRRP!_ and you’re there
(yes, that’s my sound effect for a mouse).

So **anyways**, some PC games I’m excited for now are _Portal_ and _Half-Life 2:
Episode 2_. I’ve already been playing the _Team Fortress 2_ beta and it’s pretty
freaking sweet (they’ve even implemented rankings, just like BF2/2142!).

And this time going completely off-topic: did you know _fell_ is a word!? I
don’t mean the past tense of _fall_; I mean you can actually go _fell_ something
(i.e. I [felled](https://ninjawords.com/fell) that tree yesterday!). Woo, good
times.

Ugh, I could totally follow that up with an
[ATLA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_The_Last_Airbender) quote…
