---
date: 2007-10-14
filename: haunted.html
type: post
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# Haunted Phones and Shampooed Carpet

So I’m sitting here in my chair with a portable house phone by my side. Okay,
normal situation — but at very odd intervals, this phone is beeping several
times because it is being paged. And this is no soft sound — it BEEPS, and
LOUDLY. Understandably, because the page function is meant to assist location of
the phone, but still — this is LOUD.

The even stranger part is that I’m the only person home. Nobody’s trying to
locate this phone. Now, I’ve got four cats, so I assume one of them is laying
down on, playing with, or knocking over the station, but I can’t do a thing
about it. You know why? _I have no idea where the hell it even is._ I don’t have
a big house — it’s not terribly small, but I don’t live in a mansion or anything
— but I can’t seem to locate this stupid station. Before you think I’m weird for
not knowing where my home phone’s charger is, know that it’s probably been moved
in the last week or so because of our attempts at cleaning up the house for
selling.

In fact, I think it’s an open house today once our realtor gets here, so she’s
going to be just showing people around while I’m sitting here trying to do
whatever. People are going to be walking into my room and assessing it while I’m
just gaming or something. Weird.

Anyways, back to the subject at hand. I’ve given up looking for this
mysteriously-located phone station, because the more I do the more my feet get
wet from our carpet, which was shampooed yesterday for the same reason mentioned
above. So I’ve confined myself to just sitting in my chair with my legs pulled
up; my own little island in the sea of wet carpet that is my house.

I’ll finish off this entry with a thoughtful comic I worked on for like five
minutes a number of months ago, and just today decided to finish off. I know the
trophy sucks, I know the white background looks horrible on this page, and I
know it’s not funny (it’s not supposed to be). I just needed to finish this and
get some feel of completion for myself.
