---
date: 2007-10-25
filename: juven.html
type: page
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# Project Juven

I’ve decided to try to rebuild one of my current webservers (named palae, and
yes, I name my servers) into a smaller, quieter, and more efficient machine
without spending much money. Right now it’s got a fairly oversized case, a
_very_ loud power supply when turned up to full blast (which, for some reason,
is required for the server not to overheat even when idle), and a hard drive
with too much old stuff on it (including two operating systems which enjoy
conflicting with each other).

So I’ve decided to try toning it down quite a few notches by stripping it of
everything and starting almost anew with more power-conservant (and less
noise-producent) parts. Which, I guess, actually works out fine, considering
that most devices which don’t require much power are simply out-of-date ones,
which I have plenty of.

So assuming that I actually decide to go through with this project, I’ll be
posting about my progress off and on. My tasks will include:

swapping out the current 500GB hard drive for one or two 8’s that I have in my
closet using a suckier graphics card that doesn’t gobble down so much power
installing Ubuntu Server Edition (with LAMP) fitting it all in a less obtrusive
case I’ve got extended hours at work this weekend because of Halloween, so I
probably won’t get to start this until Monday.

Oh, and by the way, if you haven’t guessed, this new, _rejuvenated_, server,
will be appropriately named juven.

EDIT: In other news, [my favorite author](http://www.davidlouisedelman.com/) has
[responded](http://www.davidlouisedelman.com/blog/index.php/2007/10/16/final-multireal-cover/#comment-21807)
to a [comment by
me](http://www.davidlouisedelman.com/blog/index.php/2007/10/16/final-multireal-cover/#comment-21805)
at his blog! I feel special.
