---
date: 2013-03-08
filename: netneutrality.html
type: post
---

_This post from 2013 was migrated from my old blog._

---

# Let me start off with an introduction...

(that makes sense, doesn't it?)

I've been wanting to maintain (_maintain_, not _have_) a blog for a long time.
I've had many before, but none ever had more than a few posts, mostly
meaningless, on them before I called it quits. Over and over again, I've set new
ones up, dedicating myself to keeping them active, but the result always turns
out the same. My (once more) renewed motivation to set up and continually
maintain a blog has been fueled by the dream of having a voice on the internet,
whether it has little or great influence. This blog is my solution to that
desire.

So, now that that's over with...

There's this little thing I've been reading about called **network neutrality**.
Apparently, internet service providers (ISPs) such as
[Comcast](http://comcast.net/), [Verizon](http://verizon.com/) and
[AT&T](http://att.com/) are purposefully slowing or blocking access to certain
websites and internet-dependable programs to lower these programs' creators'
reputations. For instance, AT&T may slow their customers' connections with
[Google](http://google.com/) to imply that Google is a slow search engine, which
causes said customers to use other search engines, such as the one belonging to
the ISP ([Yahoo](http://yahoo.com/) in this case) or other companies who are
paying AT&T to go through this process.

This little thing I mentioned earlier called **net neutrality** is the idea that
users should be able to connect to any server they wish without ISP-caused
connection slows or blocks. Internet users are banding together to ensure a
neutrality among the internet. Head over to
[SaveTheInternet.com](http://savetheinternet.com/) to find out what you can do
to help, including [signing the
petition](http://action.freepress.net/campaign/savethenet). Each signature
counts and is automatically sent to your Members of Congress.
