---
date: 2007-10-03
filename: phantoms.html
type: page
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# Phantom Limbs and Hourglasses

So we learned about a…disease, if you could call it that, in AP Psych today.
It’s called Phantom Limb Syndrome, and imagine this: it occurs when you have a
missing limb (which is enough for me) and you _have an itch on it_.

But you can’t scratch it. Because it’s not there.

TALK ABOUT ANNOYING!!!

You can also feel pain in it sometimes, usually something that feels like it’s
being held _in a flame_. Ouch. This occurs because sensation is completely
located in the brain; not the body part. So if something goes wrong in the
transfer of information in your brain (or something like that), you feel stuff
in a body part that doesn’t exist.

And speaking of ice cream, I’ve been playing _The Legend of Zelda: Phantom
Hourglass_ for DS recently, which came out the day before yesterday. It rocks! I
never thought a game that uses virtually only the stylus could be comfortable,
but it feels pretty natural (there’s always that position you have to find where
you’re holding your DS with only your left hand and/or leaning it up against
something so you can freely use your right hand for the stylus, though). The
world and the exploration of it isn’t as needlessly huge as _Wind Waker_‘s was
(not that I’m complaining), but still makes good use of the boat you have at
your disposal (draw a route to take, let your captain/partner do the driving
(boating?) and take care of baddies and obstacles by shooting and jumping (I’m
still in a complete daze as to how boats can _jump_, but hey, if you’ve gotta
jump something, you’ve gotta jump it)).

I actually just finished a multiplayer session with my fellow blogger (and got
owned), which is also a lot better than I thought it’d be the first time I tried
it. There’re no tools to use from single-player; it’s actually more of a game of
cat-and-mouse. One player controls Link, and the other controls three Phantoms.
Phantoms cannot be killed, and a single blow from them will kill Link, but they
are somewhat slow and more sluggish to control — instead of a standard
go-to-where-the-stylus-is-pointing movement system, they rely on the player to
draw them paths on the map (which is on the lower screen for this player) to
travel along. The player of Link must carry force gems (kinda like Triforce
shards) to their designated zone to earn points. The bigger the force gem, the
more points it’s worth, but the slower you walk while carrying it. Players
switch off roles every round.

Anyways, it’s a pretty sweet setup, and if you’ve got a DS, you need this game —
Zelda fan or not (although the former would probably appreciate it more). But
beware, ornamentalists — this game sports the cel-shaded goodness of _Wind
Waker_ (my favorite kind).

I should probably start collecting the condensation from my soda…it’s starting
to pool.

Oh, and one more thing — Valve just triggered preloads for _Portal_ and
_Half-Life 2: Episode Two_, so I’m pumped to start playing them come release.
Nothing’s better — and nothing’s worse — than being as close as possible to your
goal (having the games _on my computer_!) and not being able to reach it.

OMGSOEXCITED
