---
date: 2007-10-16
filename: realtors.html
type: post
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# They're taking over my room...

So the realtors have captured exactly one-half of my room. In the far end, my
Nintendo character poster, my
[ATLA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avatar:_The_Last_Airbender)
[rasterbation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rasterbation) and my bed have all
been defeated and replaced with schmancy art posters and thought-to-be-neat bed
comforters. In the near end, my desk, my Kramer poster and my electronics have
been untouched.

It’s a square-off.

A game of capture-the-point, if you will. We must reclaim the middle of my room!

However, the opposing force has an unfair advantage: the window. It’s open, and
come morning the sun will be a destructive force against our nocturnal nature.
Even if we manage to capture the objective tonight, by tomorrow we will be
unable to hold it. The only option is to retreat to a casing and live to fight
another day. The casing may be flimsy, and it may break easily under rain, but
this…this _cardboard box_…it is our only hope. We must accept it.

_Anyways_, today they painted the front door, so they needed to keep it _wide_
open for a while so it could dry. Apparently they didn’t know I have three cats
that are supposed to stay indoors and one that’s supposed to stay outdoors. I’m
the only house resident around (my siblings are in college and my mom & step-dad
are on vacation), so not even the realtors knew about our cat situation until I
got home from school. I managed to scrounge up two of the insider cats, and the
contractor, a family friend, knew that the outside one was only supposed to come
in to eat, so he took care of that.

It’s 7:00p and I am now the only one home. And I’m not sure where one of the
indoor cats is. She’s usually pretty reclusive, so I’m _hoping_ she’s just
hiding somewhere, but frankly I’ve looked everywhere she could viably be and
have found no trace. She’s got a collar and everything, so if she did get out, I
think we’ll be fine so long as she comes across any decent people, but I’m still
in a nervous state until then. I emailed my mom to see if there’re any places
she hides in that I don’t know about, but I don’t think there are many places I
didn’t check.

It’s too late to do much about it now; it’s very dark outside and I haven’t
heard back from my mom yet, so I’ll have to wait until tomorrow in a situation
that makes waiting horrible.
