---
category: living document
date: 2023-06-24
filename: recs.html
type: post
---

# Recommendations

There are a small number of products or behaviors in my life that, in little ways, are
life-changers. They either last a lifetime or they impact me for a lifetime.

These are them.

## 5.11 Belt

I wear a belt every day. I used to replace them every 1–2 years, then I got [this
belt](https://amzn.to/3ptyErI). That was 10 years ago. I have worn it > 95% of days
since then and it shows nearly no signs of wear. It's light. It has continuous
adjustment. I expect I will never buy another belt.

[Amazon](https://amzn.to/3ptyErI) /
[5.11](https://www.511tactical.com/tdu-belt-15-plastic-buckle.html)

## Micro Four Thirds

Micro Four Thirds is not one product but a camera and lens system (like Canon EF or
Fujifilm X). It's an open standard with cameras and lenses manufactured by many
companies. The two de facto flagships are OM System (formerly Olympus) and Panasonic,
but others include Xiaomi, Blackmagic, and DJI.

Its biggest advantage for amateur photographers like me is its size. It is a far higher
`photo quality : bag space required` ratio than I'm used to. My biggest photography
enemy has always been simply not having my camera with me; every time I have to settle
for my phone camera I question the point of continuing my photography hobby at all.

With my micro 4/3 setup I can bring everything I need in a 6L sling. I'm someone who
always has a backpack anyway, so it's a small ask.

e.g. OM System (formerly Olympus) OM-D E-M5 Mark III ([Amazon](https://amzn.to/3PtUO81)
/ [OM System](https://explore.omsystem.com/us/en/om-d-e-m5-mark-iii))

## Any Giant Mountable Power Strip

Mounting one of these on the bottom of every desk in the house, paired with [any
cheap](https://amzn.to/3XAxIPa) cable basket, was the easiest form of cable management
I've ever leveraged. Using a skinny frame and allowing for ~double the number of outlets
you actually need means every cable can plug in _where it is_, instead of routing all
cables to a central rat's nest whose residents constantly play musical chairs.

[Amazon](https://amzn.to/44e4c3W) /
[KungFuKingSocket](https://kungfukingsocket.com/products/power-strip-6)

## Noctua Fans

As a [noise-sensitive](autism.html) person whose major hobbies are mostly in front of
computers, silence is important to me in a gaming machine. Noctua makes giant, silent,
brown fans. That's it.

Once I got one I could never switch back. My next build was centered around the giant
fan-based heatsink. That build in that exact state has been purring for six years now. I
haven't even opened it up for cleaning in three. I expect to reuse the same fans for my
next build, whenever it is.

[Amazon](https://amzn.to/3pyrIJU)

## Jetz Scrubz Sponges

These lil buddies are easily a 10x–100x improvement over your traditional yellow and
green sponges in all of these categories: lifespan before being damaged, lifespan before
being permanently gross, tendancy to get temporarily gross, ease of cleaning once
temporarily gross.

They're pricier, but I've found in the long run the life span makes them cheaper.

[Amazon](https://amzn.to/46nSjKq)

# In Search Of

I'm in search of a life-changing product for these categories. Please [email
me](mailto:ben@twos.dev) if you have recommendations.

## Water Bottle

I am in search of a reusable water bottle that can last 10+ years with the following
qualities:

- Can last a week of no washing without getting funky
- Is less than ~9cm in diameter (i.e. a comfortable size for a Peak Design Everyday
  Backpack V1 20L cup holder)
- Holds about 1L
- Ability to stay cold ~1 day preferred

The closest I ever came was the [Thermos Element 5 32 oz](https://amzn.to/42XJaoR), but
I lost mine and the product has since discontinued.
