---
date: 2007-12-25
filename: wow.html
type: post
---

_This post from 2007 was migrated from my old blog [I FEEL
ASLEEP](https://ifeelasleep.wordpress.com/), which was shared with
Neverhitboxes._

---

# World of Warcraft

Yeah, you knew it was coming. If you despise _World of Warcraft_ (or MMORPG’s in
general), maybe you should stop reading here if you don’t want to throw up.

I started playing in September 2005, right when I started my job (where both my
coblogger and I still work) because about half of the employees there played
religiously, so I figured, _why the hell not_.

At that time I had been exploring [multi-user
dungeons](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MUD), which are basically text-based
MMORPG’s, but I guess _WoW_ sounded more appealing when everyone got into
talking about it. It was a nice sort of ice-breaker, too — I’m not a big
initiator of smalltalk, so actually having something real (if you can call it
that ) to talk about was a good way to pass the time.

You could probably view my track record with WoW as a tipsy relationship. You
could say we went out for about six months, but then we got bored of each other
and separated. You could then say we got back together a few months later with
more passion than ever — I was always bad at sticking to one character, but
during this passion period, I played only my mage for about three or four weeks,
getting him from the mid-30’s to 54 — which was the largest spike in our
relationship.

You could also say that once the effects of the spike dwindled away, our
relationship again grew repetitive and boring, so we took another break — one
that lasted about two months.

And now, after the serious lows and the serious highs, it’s almost like we’ve
landed right in the middle — right at the sweet spot. I like to play it enough
to maintain my characters, but not enough to cut myself off from all the other
good games out there — it’s an open relationship.

I’ve given up on getting better gear for my 70 (the mage I leveled in such a
hurry for _Burning Crusade_) because of the upcoming release of _Wrath of the
Lich King_. Instead I’m just leveling a handful of alts, trying not to rush
through them.

These include an 11 priest, a 32 druid, a 40 warlock (free mounts ftw) all on
the same server.

I would review the game itself instead of my history with it, but reviewing
MMORPG’s is a touchy subject — my opinions would probably be way more biased
than usual, and (not even as an affect of that) people would probably exaggerate
the review depending on their attitude towards MMO’s.

And apparently because it’s Christmas, my family and I are going to do family
things like make waffles and play Monopoly. So I should wrap this up.

Blegh.

(not at the waffles — waffles are the pwnzage)
